Palgrave comms corrections (#103)
Nikoleta-v3/bibliometric-study-of-the-prisoners-dilemma: main.tex

\newcommand{\clustering}{\input{assets/Clustering_coeff.txt}}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\title{A bibliometric study of research topics and collaboration
in the Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma}

%TODO VK: or A bibliometric study of research topics, collaboration and centrality
% in the Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\title{A bibliometric study of research topics, collaboration and centrality 
       in the Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma}
```

I think it's nice to include the centrality in there as a way of "replacing" influence. **But** I also like what you had before.

of time. These are human subject research, biological studies, strategies,
evolutionary dynamics on networks and modeling problems as a Prisoner's Dilemma
game. Moreover, the results demonstrated the Prisoner's Dilemma is a field of
continued interest, and that it is a collaborative field compared to other
game theoretic fields. The co-authorship
network suggests that authors are focused on their communities and that not many

> connections across the communities are made. The most central authors of the network
> are the authors connected to the main cluster, and through examining the networks
> of topics, it was uncovered that the main cluster is characterised by the
> collaboration of authors in a single topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connections across the communities are made. The most central authors of the network
are the authors connected to the main cluster. Through examining the networks
of topics, it was uncovered that the main cluster is characterised by the
collaboration of authors in a single topic.

These findings add to the bibliometrics study in another field and present new questions 
and avenues of research to understand the reasons for the measured behaviours.
```

of time. These are human subject research, biological studies, strategies,
evolutionary dynamics on networks and modeling problems as a Prisoner's Dilemma
game. Moreover, the results demonstrated the Prisoner's Dilemma is a field of
continued interest, and that it is a collaborative field compared to other
game theoretic fields. The co-authorship

> network suggests that authors are focused on their communities and not many

Reviewer: ```suggestion
network suggests that authors are focused on their communities and that not many
```

clustering and a co-authorship network analysis. A clustering analysis is
applied to the LDA topics, and the co-authorship network is analysed as a whole
where the clusters are only used to differentiate between the authors' topics.

This paper builds upon the previous works of~\cite{Bergmann2018, Liu2015,
youngblood2018}. It extends their methodology, it combines identified topics by
an LDA model with the co-authorship network analysis, and applies all these
techniques to a new data set. This data set was collected not from a single
source but from five different sources. The four publishers were chosen because
they are well known publishers in the field, and the preprint server arXiv

> because papers that have not been published yet can be collected. The search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they are well known publishers in the field, and the arXiv preprint server. 
The search
```

terms used to collect data appear on relevant articles and the search fields
that were used were the title, abstract and text. However, papers can refer to
the PD but not analyze the topic. For this reason it was manually checked that

> the papers included in the analysis are relevant. Moreover, an amount of well

Reviewer: How correct is this sentence @Nikoleta-v3 ? It makes it sound like all articles were manually checked...

Author: Yeah this is not accurate. This needs to change

known articles, which are not published in any of the selected publishers, were
manually included in the data set.

%TODO check that this is the right place for this paragraph

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

:+1:

    \end{itemize}
\end{multicols}

These publishers were chosen because they are prominent publishers in the field. For
each source, data can be collected by specifying a search term and a search field.
Articles for which any of the terms:

\begin{itemize}
\item prisoner's dilemma
\item prisoners dilemma
\item prisoner dilemma
\item prisoners evolution

> \item prisoner game theory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item prisoner's dilemma
    \item prisoners dilemma
    \item prisoner dilemma
    \item prisoners evolution
    \item prisoner game theory
```

😆 (Sorry)

\end{itemize}

> existed within the title, the abstract or the text are included in the analysis.

Reviewer: text? 

Is it not just the abstract?

Author: No it is the text as well. That is why the reviewers questioned if all the articles are relevant

Reviewer: But that's not always the case right? Or is it? Did all the APIs give the article text? For some reason I thought it was just the title and the abstract...

Reviewer: I understand now, thanks for clarifying my misunderstanding on slack. :+1:

These terms we selected because they are occurring terms in paper known to be
relevant in the field. However, the authors acknowledge that there are other

> terms that have been used, for example ``donation game''. The authors believe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
terms that could have been used, for example ``donation game''. The authors believe
```

with the claim of~\cite{Kyvik2017}.

The collaborativeness of the authors is explored in more detail in
Section~\ref{subsection:co_authorship} using the co-authorship network. The collaborative
behaviour of authors will also be explored at the research topics level. These topics and their

> reverence over time are presented in Section~\ref{subsection:research_topics}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
relevance over time are presented in Section~\ref{subsection:research_topics}.
```

\section{Results}\label{section:results}

\subsection{Research topics in the Prisoner's Dilemma research}\label{subsection:research_topics}

The articles contained in the data set (\cite{pd_data_2018}) are classified

> into research topics using LDA an unsupervised machine learning technique

Reviewer: ```suggestion
into research topics using LDA, an unsupervised machine learning technique
```

designed to summarize large collections of documents by a small number of
conceptually connected topics or themes~\cite{Blei2003, Grimmer2013}. The
documents are the articles' abstracts and LDA was carried out using~\cite{rehurek_lrec}.
In LDA, each document/abstract is represented by a distribution over topics,
and the topics themselves are represented by a distribution over words. More
specifically, each topic is described by weights associated with words and
each document by the probabilities of belonging to a specific topic. The
probability of a document belonging to a topic is referred to as the percentage

> contribution denoted as \(c\). For example the words and their associated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
each document by the probabilities of belonging to a specific topic. The
probability of a document belonging to topic \(T\) is referred to as the percentage
contribution denoted as \(c_T\). For example the words and their associated
```

weights for two topics A and B could be:

\begin{itemize}
    \item Topic A: \(0.039 \times\)``cooperation'', \(0.028 \times\)``study'' and \(0.026 \times\)``human''.
    \item Topic B: \(0.020 \times\)``cooperation'', \(0.028 \times\)``agents'' and
    \(0.026 \times\)``strategies''.
\end{itemize}

The percentage contribution for a document with abstract ``The study of
cooperation in humans'' has a \(c_{A} = 0.039 + 0.028 + 0.026 = 0.093\) and
\(c_B = .020 + 0.0 + 0.0 = 0.020\). The topic to which a document is assigned to
is based on the highest percentage contribution denoted as \(c^*\). For the
given example the dominant topic is Topic A \(c^*=c_A\).

LAD requires that the number of topics is specified in advance before running
the algorithm. The appropriate number of topics is chosen based on the

> coherence score~\cite{Roder2015} and the exclusivity~\cite{Airoldi2012}. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the algorithm. The appropriate number of topics can be chosen based on the
coherence score~\cite{Roder2015} or the exclusivity score~\cite{Airoldi2012}. The
```

coherence score measures the degree of semantic similarity between highly weighted
words of a topic. There are cases for which a few topics can be dominated by very
common words, and for that reason the exclusivity of words to topics has also
been calculated.
Figure~\ref{fig:coherence_value_over_number_of_topics} gives the topic coherence
and Figure~\ref{fig:exclusivity_value_over_number_of_topics} gives the
exclusivity of 18 models where \(n \in \{2, 3, \dots, 18\}\).

> The topic coherence for each model was calculated using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exclusivity of 18 models where the number of topics \(n \in \{2, 3, \dots, 18\}\).
The topic coherence for each model was calculated using the
```

open source project~\cite{rehurek_lrec}. The exclusivity measure was calculated
with an altered version of~\cite{rehurek_lrec} which has been archived
at~\cite{gensim_nikoleta}.

From Figure~\ref{fig:coherence_value_over_number_of_topics} it can be seen that

> the number of topics with the highest coherence score are $n=6$ (coherence score
> of 0.418) and $n=12$ (coherence score of 0.417).
> Figure~\ref{fig:coherence_value_over_number_of_topics} shows that the
> exclusivity of the highly weighted words of the topics is decreasing as the number
> of topics increases. A number of topics $n=5$ has a better exclusivity value
> than the model of $n=6$, and its coherence score is 0.406 (which is closed to
> 0.418). For that reason $n=5$ is chosen to carry out the analysis of this work.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the number of topics with the highest coherence score are \(n=6\) (coherence score
of 0.418) and \(n=12\) (coherence score of 0.417).
Figure~\ref{fig:coherence_value_over_number_of_topics} shows that the
exclusivity of the highly weighted words of the topics is decreasing as the number
of topics increases. When \(n=5\) the exclusivity value is better
than for the model of \(n=6\), and its coherence score is 0.406 (which is close to
0.418). For that reason \(n=5\) is chosen to carry out the analysis of this work.

```

Reviewer: We could include a scatter plot of exclusivity vs coherence, this would essentially show us the "pareto front" and could be a nice way to illustrate what you're saying there.

LDA is applied to the cumulative data set over 8 time periods. These periods are
1951-1965, 1951-1973, 1951-1980, 1951-1988, 1951-1995, 1951-2003, 1951-2010,
1951-2018. The number of topics for each cumulative subset is chosen based only
on the topic coherence, and the exclusivity is not taken into account. As a result,
the period 1951-2018 has been assigned \(n=6\) which had the highest coherence
value instead of 5. The chosen models for each period including the
number of topics, their keywords and number of articles assigned to them are
given in the Appendix~\ref{appendix:topics_per_year}.

But how well do the five topics which were presented earlier fit the
publications over time? This is answered by comparing the performance of three
LDA models over the cumulative periods' publications. The three models are LDA
models for the entire data set for \(n\) equal to 5, 6 and the models of
Table~\ref{table:topics_per_year} for each time period. Thus, for the period
1951-1980 the three model that are being compared are for $n$ equal to 5, 6, and
13.

For each model the \(c^*\) is estimated for each document in the cumulative data

> sets. The performance of the models is then compared based on:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sets. The performance of the models are then compared based on:
```

The five topics of the PD presented in this manuscript appear to always be
less good at fitting the publications compared to the six topics of LDA \(n=6\).

> Moreover, there are less good than the models of periods 1951-1965 to 1951-1995.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, these are less good than the models of periods 1951-1965 to 1951-1995.
```

The difference in the performance values, equation (\ref{eq:ratio}),

> however are small. The relevances of the five topics has been increasing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
however is small. The relevances of the five topics has been increasing
```

    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=.75\textwidth]{./assets/images/contribution_over_time.pdf}
    \caption{Maximum percentage contributions (\(c^*\)) over the time periods,
    for the LDA models for the entire data set for \(n\) equal to 5, 6
    and for the models of Table~\ref{table:topics_per_year}.}
    \label{fig:median_percentage_contribution_over_time}
\end{figure}

In the following section the collaborative behaviour of authors in the field,
and within the field's topics as were presented in this section, are explored
using a network theoretic approach.

\subsection{Analysis of co-authorship network}\label{subsection:co_authorship}

The relationship between the authors within a field is modeled as a graph
\(G = (V_G, E_G)\) where \(V_G\) is the set of nodes and \(E_G\)  is the set of
edges. The set \(V_G\) represents the authors and an edge connects two authors
if and only if those authors have written together. This co-authorship network is
constructed using the main data set~\cite{pd_data_2018} and the open source package
\cite{networkx}. The PD network is denoted as \(G\) where the
number of unique authors \(|V(G)|\) is \authors and \(|E(G)|\) is \edges.

> The collaborativeness of the authors is analysed using measures such as, isolated nodes,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The collaborativeness of the authors is analysed using measures such as, number of isolated nodes,
```

> connected components, clustering coefficient, communities, modularity and average degree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
number of connected components, clustering coefficient, number of communities, modularity and average degree.
```

    \caption{Network metrics for topic networks.}\label{table:topics_networks}
\end{table}

There are two centrality measures reported in this work, closeness and
betweenness centrality. Closeness centrality is a measure of how easy it is for

> an author to contact others, and betweenness centrality is a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an author to reachothers, and betweenness centrality is a
```

Author: `reach others`

> measure of how many paths pass through a specific node. All centrality measure can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
measure of how many paths pass through a specific node. All centrality measures 
```

for \(G\) and \(\bar{G}\).}\label{table:central_authors}
\end{table}

The
centrality measures for the topic networks have also been estimated and are
given in Tables~\ref{table:central_authors_topics_bt}
and~\ref{table:central_authors_topics_cl}. The centrality measure for the

> topics' networks are very low  except from the case of Topic D. From the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
topics' networks are low except from the case of Topic D. From the
```

has 4 co-authors. The results were compared to the networks of two other game
theoretic fields, and it was shown that the PD network is relatively more collaborative. The
authors however, tend to collaborate with authors from one community, but not
many authors are involved in multiple communities. This might be an effect of
academic research, and it might not be true just for the field of the PD.

Exploring the centrality of authors showed that the most central author of this
manuscript is Matjaz Perc. More importantly, it was shown that most central
authors of the network were the authors connected to the main cluster.
Interestingly, it was uncovered that these authors were the most central due to
their publication on a single topic alone. That was the topic of “evolutionary
dynamics on networks”. There appears to be more collaboration and more influence
in the publications on evolutionary dynamics. The authors are most likely to
gain from their position, and come across as the more important authors in the
field. Though it is not clear as to why, attention should be paid to the
collaborative behaviour of authors of “evolutionary dynamics on networks”.

> %TODO me trying to sound poetic/publishable. Feel free to delete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This manuscript has explored the research topics in the publications of the
Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma, and moreover, the authors' collaborative behaviour
and their centrality. This was achieved by
applying network theoretic approaches and a LDA algorithm to a total of 2422
publications.
The data collection and an initial analysis of the data set were covered in
Section~\ref{section:methodology}. The analysis  demonstrated that the PD is a
field that continues to attract academic attention and publications.

In Section~\ref{subsection:research_topics} LDA was applied to the data set to
identify topics on which researchers have been publishing. The five topics in
the PD publications identified by the data set of this work are human subject
research, biological studies, strategies, evolutionary dynamics on networks and

> modeling problems as a PD. These 5 topics nicely summarise the PD research. They

Reviewer: ```suggestion
modeling problems as a PD. These 5 topics nicely summarise PD research. They
```

highlight the interdisciplinarity of the field; how it brings together applied
modeling of real world situations (biological studies and modeling problems as a
PD) and more theoretical notions such as evolutionary dynamics and optimality of
strategies. A temporal analysis explored how relevant these topics have been

> over the course of time, and it revealed that even though there were not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
over the course of time, and it revealed that even though they were not
```

necessarily always the most discussed topics there were still being explored
by researchers.

The collaborative behaviour of the field was explored in

> Section~\ref{subsection:co_authorship} by constructing the co-authorship
> network. It was concluded that the field is a collaborative field, where authors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Section~\ref{subsection:co_authorship} investigated the co-authorship
network. It was concluded that the field is a collaborative field, where authors
```

are likely to write with a collaborator's co-authors and on average an author
has 4 co-authors. The results were compared to the networks of two other game

> theoretic fields, and it was shown that the PD network is more collaborative. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
theoretic fields, and it was shown that the PD network is relatively more collaborative. The
```

The study of the PD is the study of cooperation and investigating the
cooperative behaviours of authors is what this work has aimed to achieve.
Interesting areas of future work would include extending this analysis to more
game theoretic sub fields, to evaluate whether the results remain the same.
Moreover, the networks of this work were created by not taking into account the
strength of ties. The strength of ties could be analysed to map multiple
collaborations between two nodes. However, a preliminary assessment showed that
the presented results do not change.

Both the software~\cite{nikoleta_2017} and the data~\cite{pd_data_2018} used in
the manuscript have been archived and are available to be used by other
researchers.

\bibliographystyle{plain}
\bibliography{bibliography.bib}

\appendix

\section{Topic modeling results over time periods}\label{appendix:topics_per_year}

\begin{table}[!hbtp]
    \begin{center}
    \resizebox{\textwidth}{!}{
    \input{assets/topics_per_year_table}}
    \end{center}
    \caption{Topic modeling results for the cumulative data sets over the
    periods: 1951-1965, 1951-1973, 1951-1980, 1951-1988, 1951-1995, 1951-2003, 1951-2010,

>     1951-2018. The number of topics $n$ for each period is given in the column
>     "Topic". For example in the period 1951-1980 the selected $n$ was 13. The
>     number of topics here were chosen only based on the coherence score.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1951-2018. The number of topics \(n\) for each period is given in the column
    ``Topic". For example in the period 1951-1980 the selected \(n\) was 13. The
    number of topics here were chosen only based on the coherence score.
```
